News - Date: 24 March 2022 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 380 The current mayor of Musina Municipality, as well as the former Thulamela mayor, was given until Friday (18th) to step aside, but neither seems prepared to relinquish power. Godfrey Nkhanedzeni Mawela, the mayor of Musina Municipality, and Avhashoni Steven Tshifhango, the former mayor of Thulamela Local Municipality, were both requested by the ANC’s provincial structures to indicate whether they would voluntarily step aside. Tshifhango is currently a member of the mayoral committee (MMC) in the Vhembe District Municipality. Mawela and Tshifhango form part of a group of ANC office bearers in Limpopo who were asked to inform the ANC Limpopo’s provincial committee whether they were adhering to the party’s step-aside policy. If not, their cases will be referred to the National Working Committee of the ANC for a decision. On Tuesday, no certainty existed whether the two had agreed to step aside. The ANC’s provincial spokesperson, Donald Selamolela, could not confirm whether the two had stepped aside, saying he was still in a meeting. “It is the party’s standard policy to inform the members accused of crimes and court cases whether they are intending to step aside or not, and if they are not complying, their matter will be referred to the National Working Committee of the party. We understand that if the two are stepping aside, for example to the mayor of Musina, it might affect the service delivery, but we have put in place [measures] that will help us to deliver services to the communities,” said Selamolela. Mawela was charged with assault and appeared in court after an incident at a tavern in Muswodi-Dipeni village in the early hours of Saturday, 26 February. He appeared in the Mutale Magistrate’s Court on Monday, 28 February, and his case was postponed to 29 April for further police investigation and to allow him to get the legal representative of his choice. Tshifhango faces charges of corruption and maladministration linked to the looting of the now-defunct VBS Mutual Bank. He appeared in the Thohoyandou Magistrate’s Court on 8 February and his case was postponed to 24 May and transferred to the Polokwane Commercial Specialised Court.  Avhashoni Tshifhango (left), the former mayor of Thulamela Local Municipality and now Vhembe District’s member of the mayoral committee (MMC) for corporate services. Right: Musina Mayor Godfrey Nkhanedzeni Mawela. Photos: Silas Nduvheni.  Email: