News - Date: 25 March 2022 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 527 The death of well-known Limpopo musician and dancer Takalani Mapholi, more popularly known as Jodi Anna, has once more focused the spotlight on the plight of depressed musicians who have taken to suicide as a way out. Mapholi’s body was found hanging from an overhead bridge next to the Caltex garage in Thohoyandou on Thursday, 17 March 2022. The incident nearly brought the busy Thohoyandou main road to a standstill after a learner from the area alerted the community and the police showed up. Jodi Anna was known for producing hits such as I Withdraw. He now joins the ranks of well-known personalities such as the late rapper Riky Rick Makhado and actor Patrick Shai, who both recently ended their own lives. Jodi Anna also did a song with his famous fellow musician and friend Mizo Phyll, called Keep The Fire Burning. Ironically, the song encourages others not to give up in the face of despair and hang themselves - no matter how bad things get. Tributes started pouring in after Jodi Anna’s tragic death was confirmed. Mizo Phyll told the media that he was heartbroken about it. “The creative arts industry is doomed. Why do we have to bury each other on a weekly basis? It is one burial after another, and the worst part is that they are not natural deaths. This is a clear sign that there is a problem here. Artists are humans and face depression and have no one to talk to. We need to come together as artists and have an awareness on this. As for my friend, I did not know he was going through tough times and his death shocked me to the core,” he said. Another friend, Mr Ziggy Takalani, who is popularly known as ‘Homicide’ in music circles, said he had not accepted Jodi Anna’s death yet. “Anna was a good person to work with and a friend to everyone. He was a master of his craft and destined for greater things. We will surely miss his laughter and his talents,” he said. The family asked to be given space to mourn their loved one. Mental health is fast becoming a serious problem, also in local society. In 2021, the South African Anxiety and Depression Group reported that approximately 23 people in South Africa die every day as a result of suicide. A senior lecturer at Univen, Dr Angie Maphula, said this week that such tragedies could be averted if the people involved received the necessary assistance. “There are many causes of depression that lead a person to think or believe that there is no solution to his/her problems. But there is always a way out of problems. One must confide in those close to oneself. Pastors and social workers can help freely, but there is also the option to consult with a therapist who practices privately. People cannot continue to die while there is help for them,” she said. Maphula said that the government kept focussing on physical health, while not enough was being done to address mental health. “Our public health facilities lack counsellors and nurses to do screenings, so that depression can be detected early. This could save many lives,” she said. The late Limpopo musician and dancer, Takalani Mapholi, also known as Jodi Anna. Photo: Facebook (Thendo Theodore).  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and was a permanent part of the news team until 2019.  Email: