News - Date: 26 March 2022 Written by: Thembi Siaga / Viewed: 448 Darel Kumalo is a self-taught fashion designer, who wows local fashion lovers with his inimitable style. At the age of 17, Kumalo is establishing himself as a vibrant young fashion designer whose creations incorporate modern styles and techniques. Darel, a resident of Mpheni Ha-Makhakhe, is currently a Grade 12 science stream student at Muthuhadini Combined School. He said that he was keen to enrol in a fashion-designer course after passing matric. “I just want to first finish high school, because I want to go to a tertiary institution to expand my knowledge. I’m a person who loves hustling, and designing fashion is my dream career,” he said. Darel explained that his interest in fashion design was sparked three years ago. “I was 15 years old when I started playing around with a hand needle, redesigning my jeans and shirts. That’s how I fell in love with dressing myself, and people started to like what I was doing by showing support. Those who were close to me encouraged me to keep up with what I was doing,” he recalled. He established his own clothing brand, called keelowfits, in 2016 and he is known for his creative and unique designing styles. Kumalo’s designs combine all kinds of natural, light fabrics that he sources from local fabric markets. “I also transform old jeans into stylish bucket hats and bags. I use plain fabric and highlight fabric paints to design jeans, T-shirts, jerseys, pants, suits and tracksuits,” he said. Darel said that he drew his inspiration from the dress code of the renowned South African rapper Mthembeni Ndevu, better known by his stage name of Emtee. “Currently I am following Emtee’s clothing design styles, because I love the type of fashion he wears. That’s the reason why I’m designing vintage style and drip. Some people describe it as skrr-skrr (Hip-Hop subculture) fashion because of the baggy jeans and t-shirts,” he said. His biggest inspiration, however, remains his mother. “My mom motivates me every single day. She shows me some good mentors that I could follow, and her dream is to see me as a celebrity designer. I want to dress up people from SA and abroad, and I want my brand to be well known,” he said.  A self-taught fashion designer, Darel Kumalo, adds the finishing touches to bucket hats. Photo: Thembi Siaga.  Thembi Siaga worked as an intern during 2021. He assisted with video photography and editing. He also produced numerous small documentaries, focusing on the Vhembe region and its people.  Email: