News - Date: 19 March 2022 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 578 One would think that something such as a brand-new, state-of-the-art library would bring joy and excitement, especially to rural communities where such amenities are scarce or even non-existent. Unfortunately, the opposite occurred when a R18 million library that was built in the Malamulele area, in the Collins Chabane Municipality, brought animosity and division between the communities of Dumela and Mulamula. The library was initially supposed to have been built at Dumela village, as the community had specifically applied for it, but to their consternation and great disappointment, it was built at the neighbouring Mulamula village instead. The Dumela community points an accusing finger at the Limpopo MEC for Sports Arts and Culture, Thandi Moraka, for ordering the diversion of the project to Mulamula village. Some of the residents from the two villages have made their peace and accepted the fact that it would serve both communities, situated a stone throw from each other, as well as other neighbouring villages. But before the dust can settle completely, residents and other community structures want an investigation into the matter to establish firstly, the cause of the delay of the project, and secondly, why the project was moved to the neighbouring village. Allegations of corruption against the MEC have since emerged. The Dumela community has, through its community development forum, even gone to the extent of opening a case of corruption with the Hawks against the MEC concerning the issue last month. They also lodged a complaint with the office of the Public Protector, Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane. The Democratic Alliance (DA) in Limpopo has also entered the fray and has written to the chairperson of the Portfolio Committee for Sports, Arts and Culture (SAC), Ms Mahodi Mahasela, to request that the MEC and her department appear before the committee to account for the incomplete library project. The DA’s Limpopo Chief of Staff Ms Karia van Rensburg pointed out that, during a recent oversight visit of the project, they were shocked to find that, three years down the line, the project was still not complete. “We found no building equipment or workers on site, and it appears that the building has been abandoned for some time. The library is only 61% complete and could be exposed to vandalism and looting. As the DA, we are further concerned about a dispute around the location of the library,” she said. Van Rensburg further called on the SAC portfolio committee chairperson to ensure that the library does not become an abandoned cemetery for dreams but rather to ensure that the library is completed to unlock opportunities in the community. Mr Dayson Dumela of the Dumela Community Development Forum said they had applied for the library years ago and this request had been turned down. They then made another application, which was finally approved. “We were very excited to hear that a library had been approved and it was to be built in our area. But our excitement turned into disappointment when MEC Moraka announced during a community meeting that the library would no longer be built at our village, but at Mulamula instead. The sudden change of events came as a complete shock to the residents of Dumela. It took a lot of effort to do the applications for the project and we now feel our efforts have been undermined. We will not lay down without a fight. We suspect there is an element of corruption, and something went wrong here. We approached the police, and we are happy that investigations have finally taken off and hopefully they will uncover this whole rotten mess. We are prepared to fight to the bitter end for what is rightfully ours,” Dumela said. Sport Arts and Culture spokesperson Mr Lucky Tshilimandila denied that the MEC had had a hand in it and said that the delay of the project had been caused by internal squabbles in the village. The findings of the Public Protector, Advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane, also seems to exonerate the department, based on the available evidence. Her report indicated that the complainants (the Dumela community) were at all material times part of the decision to move the library from Dumela to Mulamula as a central point. Mkhwebane further indicated that she cannot condone or instruct the Department of Sport Arts and Culture to incur another expenditure when an amount of R818 000 had already been spent on the feasibility study and consultancy fees at Mulamula. Captain Matimba Maluleke of the Hawks confirmed that they are investigating the project. “It is true that a case was opened in January 2022 and that we are investigating allegations of corruption. It is still too early to tell, but the investigations are continuing,” he said.  The incomplete library at Mulamula village in the Malamulele area. Photo supplied.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and was a permanent part of the news team until 2019.  Email: