News - Date: 11 March 2022 Written by: Andries van Zyl / Viewed: 306 The long wait is finally over for both the management and shareholders of the Zoutpansberg Private Hospital (ZPH) in Louis Trichardt with the sod turning ceremony for the planned + 90-bed expansion to the hospital taking place on site on Monday. From its humble beginnings in 2001, the hospital expanded gradually and organically, always considering the healthcare needs of the community it serves. In 2015, the hospital opened the new 10-bed day ward and, over the recent past, expanded its services to include urology, general surgery and orthopaedic surgery, to name but a few. The founders of the hospital - doctors and healthcare professionals themselves - have always aligned the hospital to serve the needs of the community. To serve the community’s needs more holistically, the directors of the ZPH agreed to expand the services offered at the hospital to address residents’ increased healthcare needs. As part of this commitment, the founders further recognised the importance of ensuring that the hospital is a genuinely community-centred hospital, representative and inclusive, a facility run by the people, for the people. To achieve the above objectives, the hospital concluded a transaction with Summit Africa Private Equity, a black-owned and -managed private equity firm that focuses on healthcare investments. The partnership enables the hospital to invite a broader base of doctors and other colleagues to partner with it and ensures a broader representation in the community that it serves. The envisaged expansion of the hospital is a direct result of this partnership. The expansion will be completed over two phases, to ensure that no interruption in services occurs during the development. Phase 1 will be the construction of a brand new + 90-bed hospital on the acquired land adjacent to the existing facility. In addition to the increased bed capacity, the new hospital will include a brand-new theatre complex, comprising three new operating theatres and a dedicated maternity theatre. High-care and intensive-care beds are to be added for maternity, paediatrics and adult care. Phase 2 will start with the moving of the current services and patients to the “new” hospital. At that stage, the existing hospital will be converted to include increased consulting suites for specialists and various outpatient and primary-care services, as informed by the needs of the community. Of particular importance will be the expansion of the accident and emergency department. “This is not only a good day for the hospital, but a good day for Louis Trichardt and the general Makhado district. I think that we are about to embark on a path that is going to lay the foundation for a lot of good things to come for a lot of people in the surrounding communities,” said Mr Ngange Nongogo, chairman of the ZPH board and Summit Africa shareholder, during the sod-turning ceremony. “But I want to say the real hard work starts now. I think we have gotten to a certain place, and we need to take it now all the way to the end. So, a hearty congratulations to everybody who has made this possible to this point,” he added. Mr Martin Kennealy echoed Nongogo’s words. He spoke on behalf of the private hospital’s board of directors as one of them. “I want to stress management. Management are the guys making this thing possible. Thank you very much, managers. Thank you also Summit Africa for their vote of confidence in this project and for Ngange for driving it so hard,” said Kennealy. The business, financial and medical consultants on the project will be Healthshare Consultants. “Today is a big moment. Milestones are so important to celebrate, and today is a celebration. Ngange, you are quite right. The hard work starts now. We, from a Healthshare point of view, look forward to working with you, the management team and the different contractor teams in order to get the project up and running. We look forward to the road ahead,” said Mr Kit Wolstenholme from Healthshare Consultants. The ZPH received permission for the expansion early in 2020 from the Limpopo Department of Health. Monday’s sod-turning ceremony thus hails the dawn of a new era for the hospital. The initial bulk groundworks are scheduled to be completed within the next six weeks, after which the construction phase will begin. The proposed date for completion is November 2023 if no setbacks are experienced.  Pictured during the sod-turning ceremony for the + 90-bed expansion to the Zoutpansberg Private Hospital (ZPH) on Monday were (from left to right), ZPH director and shareholder Dr Michiel Roos, ZPH director and shareholder Dr Emil Gaigher, Mr Walter Dooghe (project manager - Terray), Mr Ngange Nongogo (chairman of the ZPH board and a Summit Africa shareholder), ZPH director and shareholder Mr Martin Kennealy and ZPH director and shareholder Dr Anton Stroebel.  Andries joined the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror in April 1993 as a darkroom assistant. Within a couple of months he moved over to the production side of the newspaper and eventually doubled as a reporter. In 1995 he left the newspaper group and travelled overseas for a couple of months. In 1996, Andries rejoined the Zoutpansberger as a reporter. In August 2002, he was appointed as News Editor of the Zoutpansberger, a position he holds until today.  Email: andries@zoutnet.co.za