News - Date: 09 April 2022 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 854 The discovery of a small clay pot decorated with different beads created an atmosphere of suspicion at Tshishushuru village outside Thohoyandou. The strange looking clay pot was spotted by a passer-by next to the road on Sunday morning. Superstitious residents immediately concluded that an unknown person with evil intentions, to bring harm to a person or persons, had left it there. The area is not new to mysterious and strange things being placed at strategic spots where people pass. Last year, a chicken with beads tied around it was spotted in the area. The chicken was very aggressive and even dogs were afraid of it. The chicken spent nearly a week in the nearby bushes before disappearing. Now residents fear that an evil spirit has taken over their village. They say that the driving force behind the evil happenings is unknown. Community leader Mr Peter Rasikhanya said he had been alerted to the mysterious-looking clay pot on Sunday. “Strange things are happening here at our village. Not long ago, we had this chicken with beads that feared nothing. Now it is this clay pot. We do not even know their intention and we will never touch it,” he said. Rasikhanya said that the matter would be reported to the senior traditional leader, Thovhele Calvin Nelwamondo, who would give a directive on what to do with the pot. A community member who did not want his name to be mentioned said he had no doubt that the small pot was there for evil purposes. “This is pure witchcraft, and we are no longer safe as a village. We now no longer know whom to trust and whom not to trust,” he said. He suggested that a traditional healer be called to “reverse the curses”. The president of the Vhembe Traditional Health Practitioners, Maine Vho-Mbilivhilu Neluvhola, warned residents against touching such objects. “There might be an evil intent here, somebody might be trying to get rid of evil and touching this might spell doom to whoever touches it. The only person who has the last say on what to do about it is the traditional leader,” he said.  The beaded jar that was found at Tshishushuru. Residents believe it has something to do with witchcraft. Photo supplied.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and was a permanent part of the news team until 2019.  Email: