News - Date: 17 April 2022 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 786 Gudani Mudau was bitten by the cooking bug early on in her life. The 22-year-old woman from Ha-Mashamba village, outside Louis Trichardt, always found a way to stay near her grandmother, Ms Konanani Mudau, whenever she started cooking. Gudani would offer her help, and, in the process, she too learned how to cook well. Later she started watching food network channels that sharpened her cooking skills and today, Gudani is an accomplished and celebrated chef, sought after for her salivating and scrumptious dishes. Having worked at well-known places, such as The Chef’s Table in Durban, The Farm Boutique Guesthouse in Ha-Matsila in Limpopo and currently at Hoëveld House in Sandton, Gauteng, Gudani has amassed a wealth of experience in the catering business. She would now like to share this expertise with others as a way of ploughing back into her community. “I am passionate about food. I live and breathe it. I have cooked for celebrities like Makhadzi, Nomcebo, Mr Bow, Thomas Mlambo and Shamponaize, to name but a few. I am nearly achieving my dream, but I feel I owe it to my community. Very few of our youths know this field of work and do not even realize that they can make a career for themselves out of it. It is time for me to plough back and teach them. I will be doing that at my home village soon,” she said. Gudani’s own training in this field formally started during her high school years at Eric Louw Hoërskool in Musina, followed by further studies at the Hospitality Training Group in Durban. She owns her own company, called Good Eats with Gudani, which does very well. “My hospitality teacher, Ms Chrisna Viljoen, believed in me so much that she helped and encouraged me to do well in this career. I owe my success to her. I render services, like catering for small or large events, private chef and menu planning. My advice to the aspiring chefs out there is to follow your heart. I know many are sceptical about this, but let me assure you that there are many opportunities in this field. You can even work overseas if you have the necessary skills. I am now calling on all aspirant chefs in my area to get in touch with me and we will organize free classes for you,” she said. Those who are interested in attending free cooking classes, or wish to know more about Gudani’s services, can contact her on 071 138 5857, or Dakalo Mudau on 073 275 6954.  Doing what she does best, Chef Gudani Mudau prepares food for her customers. Photo supplied.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and was a permanent part of the news team until 2019.  Email: