News - Date: 03 April 2022 Written by: Maanda Bele / Viewed: 469 When Rendani Ernest Netshitudzi enrolled in Grade 8 at Masereni Secondary School in 2010, he was very disappointed that his favourite subject, agriculture, was not being offered at the school. He thought his childhood dream of becoming a farmer had ended. The 24-year-old from Khomele village completed his matric in 2015 and met the minimum requirements for a diploma, but because of a lack of finances, he could not further his studies. The situation did even more harm to the young man’s dream of becoming an agricultural scientist. In 2018, Netshitudzi saw an advert for an agriculture learnership at the ROMA Training Institute, and at that moment he knew that his life was about to change for the better. “It was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for someone like me, who comes from the deep rural areas. I had to grab it with both hands and make something out it,” he said. During the learnership, Netshitudzi managed to save R1 000 each month from his monthly stipend as he was determined to have his own farm one day. That dream has become a reality for him as today he owns a hectare and a half of his own land, 25 cows and 18 goats. “I started off by planting butternuts at the back of my house. When I harvested the butternuts, I bought a piece of land and started planting tomatoes. With the profit I made from this, I started saving up to buy cows and goats.” Netshitudzi says his focus now is to create more employment for people in his village. On Friday, 18 March, he was among the 300 students who graduated from the ROMA Training Institution, and more specifically among the 50 who graduated with a National Certificate in Plant Production NQF level 4. Fifty students graduated with a National Certificate in Plant Production NQF level 2, 150 graduated with a National Certificate in Plant Production NQF level 3, 50 more with a National Certificate in Plant Production NQF level 4 and 50 students graduated with a National Certificate in Animal Production NQF level 4. The ceremony was held at the Bible Mission Church at Ha-Ramavhoya in Nzhelele. The school director, Mr Steven Mathelemusa, said he was excited to see so many students that had come through the ranks and graduated. He encouraged the graduates to use the skills that they had acquired to contribute to the economic growth of the country. The school principal, Mr Tshimangadzo Mutheiwana, applauded the new ROMA alumni. “I have made a promise to myself and to the parents that the ROMA Training Institute will continue to make a difference in the communities. We will have another batch of graduates in September this year.”  Rendani Ernest Netshitudzi was among the 300 students who graduated from the ROMA Training Institution on Friday, 18 March. Photo: Maanda Bele.  Maanda  Bele, born and raised in Nzhelele Siloam, studied journalism at the Tshwane University of Technology. He is passionate about current news and international affairs. He worked as part of the Zoutnet team as an intern in 2017. He is currently a freelance journalist specialising in news from the Vhembe district.  Email: Maandabele@gmail.com