News - Date: 10 April 2022 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 704 Tendani Malusele (26) of Vondwe Matatshe taught herself how to make traditional attire, because she was determined to rise above poverty. A drop-out marketing student at the Vhembe FET College, Malusele decided to use her creativity to provide her community with traditional and modern clothing. “I had no other alternative but to use my hands to generate an income. I wasn’t willing to beg for the rest of my life, so I decided to do something about my situation, because I am the master of my own destiny. Many people think the best thing is to go out and look for a job, but we can also create jobs for ourselves. People around here have so many hidden talents, but they do not know how to utilise them. I didn’t realise that I was sitting on a bag of money, until I took the initiative to stand up and fight for my future.” Malusele is doing really well, and she has even hired a permanent assistant to help her. When asked what advice she had for other young women, she said: “Stand up and take charge of your lives. It’s high time we took back control. Don’t depend on a man.” She is adamant that her happiness comes first in her life, despite the challenges she sometimes faces. “Running a business is not easy, but I make sure that I do what makes me happy,” she said. Malusele shared her secret recipe for success. “Hard work, effective time management and proper customer care will make you go places.” Everything she knows about dressmaking comes from determination inside herself. “The time has come for us to eradicate poverty by creating our own projects, instead of just saying there are no jobs,” she said. Her ultimate goal is to teach the youth and unemployed people in the village a skill that could help them earn a living. Those who wish to learn how to sew can call her on Tel 079 410 9977.  Tendani Malusele of Vondwe Matatshe displays some of the tradtional attire she makes and sells. Photo supplied.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za