News - Date: 07 April 2022 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 1099 The traditional leader of Tshikonelo-Tshiawelo village, Khosi Mudzulathungo Mmbi, is relieved after hearing that the Tshaulu Periodical Court had provisionally withdrawn his kidnapping case on 22 February because of a lack of evidence. Mmbi and his co-accused, Shumani Luvhengo (33), found themselves on the wrong side of the law after they were accused of kidnapping a 34-year-old man from Tshikonelo village. The victim claims that he was abducted by the two men from a tavern, called Chicago Eating House, and later found himself in the middle of the bush at Nyabane village. While his abductors contemplated killing him, he managed to escape and went straight to the police. Mmbi and Luvhengo were arrested the next day (19 April 2021) on charges of kidnapping. What followed was a series of court appearances and lots of trauma for the accused. The overjoyed Mmbi (66) told the media that the matter was the result of jealous people’s false accusations. “I felt humiliated, degraded and downright trodden on after these accusations, which were done out of spite. I suffered emotionally, psychologically, physically and economically because my two mansions, including my palace, were burned to ashes. The library with its five computers and two laptops, which was used by learners and community members, was also destroyed during the riot,” he said. When asked whether he bore any grudges against the people who had falsely accused him of kidnapping, Mmbi said, “I don’t bear grudges against anybody, except for the vendetta that emanates from (my) stern position against rampant crime, like gambling and abusing alcohol.” Mmbi did add that, as a leader of the community, he felt that people needed to be more outspoken on issues pertaining to manipulation and falsely accusing others.  The traditional leader of Ha-Tshikonelo-Tshiawelo, Khosi Mudzulathungo Mmbi, is relieved after the Tshaulu Periodic Court had provisionally withdrawn the charges of kidnapping against him. Photo: Silas Nduvheni.  Email: