News - Date: 08 April 2022 Written by: Kaizer Nengovhela / Viewed: 409 The Road Agency of Limpopo (RAL) confirmed that a further R24 million had been allocated for the reconstruction of the D959 Road. Construction work on this controversial road that leads to Sinthumule and Kutama is expected to start this week. In 2020, the Limpopo MEC for Public Works, Dickson Masemola, announced that R11.5 million had been budgeted to rehabilitate the D959 from Louis Trichardt to the Makhado Air Force Base, and the D3715 from Madabani to Tshikhodo. Construction work on the D959 started in January the same year. Because of shoddy work, millions more had to be pumped into the project, but to no avail. Two years down the line, the project is still not finished, leaving residents with the same dangerous roads and many unanswered questions, such as who is now to blame for the poor condition of the newly “upgraded” road? This incomplete development has so far cost taxpayers close to R31.5 million since it started in 2020, and has achieved little else besides causing frustration to thousands of commuters who travel to and from town every day. When Masemola visited the project in 2021, he referred the matter to both the Special Investigating Unit (SIU) and the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (Hawks), who said that the contractor would face dire consequences should investigations find any dishonest dealings regarding the project. The contractor, Makasana Construction, who is in a joint venture with Vashumi, was ordered back to the road and on 20 November 2021 started to remove the layer of tar with a grader. On investigation, the condition of the road ranged from poor to very poor and required major reconstruction as it was developing what is referred to as crocodile skin - cracks around potholes in the road, which means a deeper problem, such as the possible existence of water underneath the road’s surface. For motorists travelling this potholed road, this could mean the difference between life and death. RAL spokesperson Mr Maropeng Manyathela confirmed that they had secured a total of R24 million to fund the long-awaited project. “Local community members and motorists have raised concerns about the condition of this road for some time,” he said. As far as the new project is concerned, Manyathela promised that local people would also be used during the construction process. “They will also be empowered with the skills they will use to provide for themselves after the completion of the six-month project,” he said. A local taxi driver, Mr Idani Mugwedi, who operates between Louis Trichardt and Sinthumule on a daily basis, said that the poor condition of the road had been a cause of concern for himself and other local community members. “We really welcome this project with open arms because we have been waiting long. Besides prolonging the lifespan of our vehicles, it will make our lives easier as we will be able to move from one place to another easily. This makes us very happy and thankful,” said Mugwedi. Mr Rudzani Mafunisa, a resident in the area, expressed his unhappiness about the state of the road. “Residents had reached out to RAL for intervention. The government officials misuse the taxpayers’ money by doing shoddy jobs and the contractors benefit for themselves and forget about the community. The potholes are deep, and when it rains, they get deeper and more dangerous as they are covered with water, which makes it hard to spot the holes when you drive,” Mafunisa said. “The potholes here have become shallow graves that damage vehicles. Even worse, they take lives,” he said.  The D959 road leading to Sinthumule has deteriorated to such an extent that it poses a risk to motorists.  Kaizer Nengovhela started writing stories for Limpopo Mirror more than a decade ago, in 2 000. Prior to that he had a five year stint at Phala-Phala FM as sports presenter. In 2005 Kaizer received an award from the province's premier as Best Sports Presenter. The same year he was also nominated as Best Sports Reporter by the Makhado Municipality. Kaizer was awarded the Mathatha Tsedu award in 2014.  Email: kaizerdo@webmail.co.za