News - Date: 08 April 2022 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 574 Things do not look so bright for former Thohoyandou prosecutor Leonard Ratshilumela Makhado as the charges against him keep piling up. In May 2020, Makhado (49) had to face two charges of corruption and defeating the ends of justice after the Limpopo Hawks’ Serious Corruption Investigation team arrested him when he allegedly received a R6 000 bribe to squash a case of reckless and negligent driving. Makhado was granted bail, but on 15 June 2021 he failed to appear before the Sibasa Regional Court, and a warrant for his arrest was issued, adding to his existing charges. Makhado was supposed to appear in the Giyani Specialised Commercial Crime Court on 28 March 2022 for trial on his previous charges, but again he did not show up and another warrant of arrest was issued. On Wednesday, 30 March this year, Makhado, along with another suspect, Mbofholowo Freedom Tshikovhele (27), were arrested for allegedly attempting to kill a key witness in the case and burn down her house. The incident occurred on 29 March. According to Limpopo police spokesperson Brig Motlafela Mojapelo, the complainant (aged 56) was asleep in her house in Mukula village. She woke up at about 02:30 when she was reportedly disturbed by something that smelled like petrol, so she got up to investigate. “When she realised that the house was on fire, she started screaming. Other family members managed to come and assist her in extinguishing the fire and she was rescued. The police were called, and the family members were taken to the police station for safety,” said Mojapelo. Makhado and Tshikovhele appeared in the Thohoyandou Magistrate’s Court on Thursday, 31 March, on charges of attempted murder and conspiracy to commit murder. The spokesperson for the Limpopo National Prosecuting Authority (NPA), Ms Mashudu Malabi-Dzhangi, said the NPA condemned the behaviour of the former prosecutor. “It is very disappointing to see how someone in his position could commit such crimes. We do, however, commend the good work done by the police, who acted accordingly.” Meanwhile, acting state prosecutor at the Thohoyandou Magistrate’s Court Mr Tovhowani Tshisaphungo made clear to the court that he did not feel comfortable to prosecute a former employee. “The court will have to appoint someone who is not an employee of this court to proceed with Makhado’s case,” he said. Makhado and Tshikovhele’s case was postponed to 6 April to secure an available prosecutor from outside the Thohoyandou Magistrate’s Court to proceed with the matter. They remain in custody.  Former Thohoyandou prosecutor Leonard Ratshilumela Makhado and co-accused Mbofholowo Freedom Tshikovhele appeared in the Thohoyandou Magistrate's Court on 31 March 2022 on charges of attempted murder and conspiracy to commit murder. Photo: Silas Nduvheni.  Email: