News - Date: 24 April 2022 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 1159 The Sterkstroom Living Gospel World Mission Church in Malavulwe village honoured the late Mama Grace Mathaba when one of their new buildings was named after her. Mathaba, who also served as pastor at the church, died in a car accident in 2012 on her way to a prayer session in Ha-Muraga village. Pastor Ronald Makhadi said that the church would always remember her dedication in preaching the Word of God. “We decided to erect a new building and name it the Mama Grace Mathaba building in her honour,” he said. The new building has a baptism pool, two classrooms for teaching Sunday School to the children, an ablution block and a room to be used as a crèche. The new state-of-the-art building, which cost over R500 000 to build, was officially opened on Sunday, 10 April, by Dr Vhulahani Madzinge, Thovhele Gole Mphaphuli and the President of the Living Gospel World Mission in Tshilivho, Pastor Rembuluwani Kharivhe. “As traditional leaders, we support all churchly activities conducted in our area because it keeps our communities free from crime. The church, being a place of worship, makes people feel safer,” said Mphaphuli. Last year, the church also built a new house for one of its unemployed members, Mr Christopher Tshilamatanda, which was handed over to him in December 2021. The family’s new home was fully furnished by well-known philanthropist Dr Calvin Mutwanamba. “We have to remember the poor people in our communities, and even in our churches and do something for them because they are human beings like us. When the church first approached me, I made the decision to change life for the better for poor families who are not in a position to do it on their own,” Mutwanamba said.  Standing in front of the new Mama Grace Mathaba building at the Sterkstroom Living Gospel World Mission Church in Malavulwe are, from left to right, Vhamusanda Nndedzeni Mafenya-Mphaphuli, Thovhele Gole Mphaphuli, Dr Vhulahani Madzinge, his wife, Ms Mihani Madzinge, Ms Alvinah Mutambedzo, Pastor Rembuluwani Kharivhe, Pastor Ronald Makhadi and his wife, Ms Eunice Makhadi. Photo: Silas Nduvheni.  Email: