News - Date: 03 April 2022 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 886 Renowned tour guide and traditional healer from Vhembe Vho-Maine Mashudu Rubson Dima of Miluwani village, was overjoyed when the National Heritage Council (NHC), in conjunction with the Limpopo Department of Sports, Arts and Culture, selected him as winner of the National Living Treasure category during the 2021/22 annual Golden Shield Heritage Awards (GOSHA). The awards ceremony was held at Meropa Casino outside Polokwane on Friday, 25 March. The 81-year-old Dima is also the founder of a non-profit, community-based organisation called AFYEMD. He works with schools, the youth in communities and with academic researchers on aspects of indigenous knowledge, culture and cultural biodiversity. Dr Dima advocates for the value of indigenous knowledge systems, the significance of preserving nature as well as aspects of indigenous healing and medicinal plants. Through his programmes, he has created space for intergenerational learning and dialogue. He has contributed to decolonising community healthcare services regarding the traditional way of managing diseases and cultural practices that might have an impact on the management of diseases such as HIV and AIDS. He has been practising as an indigenous healer for 60 years. Dima has worked with different universities at international and local level on indigenous knowledge systems, with social workers in the Vhembe District, as well as different government departments. Maine Dima also received a R20 000 prize to assist him with his projects. This was his third award in the National Living Treasure category so far. “The award shows me that what I’m doing in promoting indigenous knowledge is recognised country-wide,” he said proudly. The newly appointed chief executive officer of the National Heritage Council, Dr Ndivho Luvkhwareniwho, also addressed the guests and said that the primary purpose of the awards was to identify, preserve, protect, promote and transform the heritage space.  Vho-Maine Mashudu Dima shows off his award after the 2021/22 annual Golden Shield Heritage Awards (GOSHA), held at Meropa Casino outside Polokwane on Friday, 25 March. He was selected winner in the National Living Treasure category. Photo: Silas Nduvheni.  Email: