News - Date: 13 January 2022 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 703 The mayor of Musina local municipality, Cllr Godfrey Mawela, urged the members of the Nduvheni royal family in Ngalavhani village in the Mutale area to follow in the footsteps of their late traditional leader, Vhamusanda Rembuluwani Nduvheni, who dedicated his life to working for the people. Nduvheni (75) died on 14 January 2021 at Mveledzo Medical Centre in Thohoyandou after a short illness and was buried on 20 January, but his clan and communities could not perform the traditional rituals and unveiling of the tombstone then because of the Covid-19 restrictions. “The late traditional leader was a servant of the people and worked tirelessly at developing his community for the better. He used to link the Ha-Rammbuda Tribal Council with the Musina Local Municipality during the sittings of traditional leaders and the imbizo, now known as the public-participation programme,” Mayor Mawela said. Mawela was joined by Archbishop Itani Mureri of the United African Apostolic Church (UAAC), Bishop Isaac Dagada and several traditional leaders from Ha-Rammbuda on 29 December last year during a ceremony held in honour of Nduvheni’s life and to unveil his tombstone. Nduvheni was one of the longest-serving traditional leaders in the Ha-Rammbuda Tribal Council. He had worked with the former Venda Minister of Justice, Thovhele John Ratshilumela Rammbuda, worked as both chairperson of the Rammbuda Tribal Council and as acting senior traditional leader, worked with former Thovhele Muthu ha Thonwi Rammbuda, and at the time of his death, he was working with Thovhele Ratshibvumo II Rammbuda. Representing the Nduvheni clan, Pastor Avhafarei Nduvheni said that, as the Vhambedzi vha ha mutwa u tshila, they were very proud of the work he had done while he had been alive. Bishop Dagada, who spoke on behalf of friends, said that Nduvheni had been a true friend. Dagada recalled how they grew up together as herders of goats and cattle in those days and described the late traditional leader as a hard worker and a man of connections.  Seated in front from left to right are the late Vhamusanda Rembuluwani Nduvheni’s wives, Vho-Emily, Takalani and Sarah, surrounded by their children and members of the Nduvheni clan, photographed after the unveiling of Nduvheni’s tombstone at Zwiendelu zwa ha Nduvheni (sacred places). Photo: Silas Nduvheni.  Email: