News - Date: 27 January 2022 Written by: Andries van Zyl / Viewed: 264 Louis Trichardt High School’s class of 2021 did exceptionally well by raking in a total of 135 A symbols as well as an impressive 153 B symbols. Of the school’s 140 matric learners who sat down to write the 2021 senior exams, a total of 54% obtained university exemption, while 22% qualified to study for a diploma. Following the release of last year’s matric results last week, Khavisani Malele emerged as Louis Trichardt High School’s top performer with seven distinction and an average of 92,1%. She obtained distinctions in English home language, Afrikaans first additional language, mathematics, life orientation, life science, physical science, and accounting. Two of Khavisani’s classmates, Antonette Baloyi and Mpho Nembudani, were the school second- and third-best students respectively, based on average. Both of them also obtained seven distinctions. Antonette and Mpho both obtained distinctions in Venda home language, English first additional language, mathematics, life orientation, life science, physical science and accounting. Dembe Sadiki also did exceptionally well, obtaining six distinctions. This was for English home language, Afrikaans first additional language, mathematics, life orientation, life science and physical science. Risuna Hlongwani scooped up five distinction, for mathematics, life orientation, life science, physical science and accounting. In total, four Triegies matrics obtained four distinctions each. They were Shaun de Beer (English first additional language, life orientation, life science and information technology), Mpho Murashiwa (Afrikaans first additional language, life orientation, life science and physical science), Ridha Shaikh (Afrikaans first additional language, life orientation, business studies and economics) and Tshifhiwa Tseli (English home language, Afrikaans first additional language, life orientation and life science). Six of last year’s Triegies matrics each bagged three distinctions, while seven obtained two distinctions each.   Khavisani Malele (middle) emerged as Louis Trichardt High School’s top performer with seven distinctions and an average of 92,1%. Antonette Baloyi (left) was the school’s second-best performer and Mpho Nembudani (right) the third best. Both Antonette and Mpho also had seven distinctions. Photos supplied.  Andries joined the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror in April 1993 as a darkroom assistant. Within a couple of months he moved over to the production side of the newspaper and eventually doubled as a reporter. In 1995 he left the newspaper group and travelled overseas for a couple of months. In 1996, Andries rejoined the Zoutpansberger as a reporter. In August 2002, he was appointed as News Editor of the Zoutpansberger, a position he holds until today.  Email: andries@zoutnet.co.za