News - Date: 21 January 2022 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 342 The merging of schools by the Department of Education in Limpopo seems to be creating many challenges, including a lack of transportation for many learners who are now forced to travel greater distances to school, and the changing of uniforms. Tshitandani Primary School (within the Tshilamba Circuit) is only one of the schools that are faced with challenges arising from the merging of schools. Their school was forced to merge with Tshamulungwi Primary, which is situated some 13 kilometres away. Tshitandani Primary has 97 learners and three teachers. Ms Doreen Musandiwa, chairperson of Tshitandani Primary’s school governing body (SGB), said that the school principal had informed them on Tuesday, 11 January, that the school would be closing as he had received instructions from the circuit manager that he and the teachers were to report at Tshamulungwi Primary at the start of the school year on Wednesday, 12 January. Musandiwa said that they were stunned, as the school had just gotten a new state-of-the-art building and ablution block, new desks and chairs, as well as a budget to run the school. “We called the circuit manager at the start of the school calendar on 12 January, who told us that he was sticking to his decision that the school was to merge with Tshamulungwi Primary. We have been threatened by the circuit before that our school will be closed and merged with Tshamulungwi Primary because of our low enrolment of learners,” said Musandiwa. “So we wrote letters to the circuit, arguing that Tshamulungwi is too far from Tshitandani village, and that learners would have to travel more than 13 kilometres to school every day. The children might be at risk of being kidnapped or going missing. Two children were reported missing and were never found.” She said they were not going to let their learners to be moved to Tshamulungwi Primary. When Musandiwa received a letter from the circuit manager, Mr Takalani Makakavhale, on Monday, 17 January (dated 14 January 2022), which states that the circuit is withdrawing its letter in which Tshitandani Primary was instructed to merge with Tshamulungwi Primary with effect from 1 January 2022 (dated 28 October, 2021), she was over the moon. Learners of Tshitandani Primary can, for the time being, resume their classes without worrying about being relocated.  Some learners at Tshitandani Primary School and the SGB chairperson, Ms Doreen Musandiwa, pose to show that they want to be taught at their own school, rather than to merge with Tshamulungwi Primary. Photo: supplied.  Email: