News - Date: 18 February 2022 Written by: Anton van Zyl / Viewed: 1389 The fight to determine the legitimate ruler of the Vhavenda may go to court before the end of the year. A pre-trial conference was held two weeks ago, and the parties agreed to request a High Court date in October or November. The Vhavenda kingship battle has been continuing for more than a decade now. It started with the controversial decision in 2012 by former President Jacob Zuma to recognise Toni Mphephu-Ramabulana as the new king of the Vhavenda. In December the same year, review applications were launched in the High Court by a contender for the throne, Masindi Clementine Mphephu. What followed was frustrating litigation over many years. The first stop was the Limpopo High Court, where the court first had to rule on various technical issues. The High Court dismissed Ms Mphephu’s application, prompting her legal team to take the matter on appeal. The Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) overturned the High Court’s decision and emphasised that the royal family had an obligation to reform traditional practices that promoted gender discrimination. The matter was referred back to the High Court and the House of Traditional Leaders was ordered to provide input to the court. The case then made its way to the Constitutional Court, where Toni Mphephu-Ramabulana again suffered a devastating defeat. The court not only ruled against him but also entertained an application to strip him of all his powers. For the administrative gears to get into motion took several months. In December last year, the Limpopo Mirror reported on a R5,7 million security contract awarded by the Department of Co-operative Government, Human Settlements and Traditional Affairs (Coghsta) for Toni Mphephu-Ramabulana’s protection. At the stage, he was also still receiving his salary and benefits. Two weeks ago, a rumour did the rounds that the government had stopped paying Ramabulana’s salary, which is in the region of R1,2 million per year. The benefits, such as the security services, were also apparently stopped. The Coghsta spokesperson in Limpopo, Ms Tsakani Baloyi, confirmed this week that the department had stopped all the benefits. She was very evasive when asked about whether benefits would be paid to a person appointed in a temporary capacity. “The support provided by government to traditional leaders is regulated by the Framework on Tools of Trade for Qualifying Traditional Leaders,” she said, without providing clarity. The general expectation is that Toni Mphephu-Ramabulana will be appointed as regent by the royal family, pending a court ruling on the matter. From what could be established, the royal family scheduled a meeting for 16 February.  Toni Mphephu-Ramabulana.  Anton van Zyl has been with the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror since 1990. He graduated from the Rand Afrikaans University (now University of Johannesburg) and obtained a BA Communications degree. He is a founder member of the Association of Independent Publishers.  Email: