News - Date: 17 February 2022 Written by: Silas Nduvheni / Viewed: 603 The woman who went missing with her two sons last week was found and has been re-united with her family in Malavuwe-Tshivhazwaulu village near Thohoyandou. “I’m very thankful for the hard work the police have done in tracking my missing daughter and her two sons, who have been missing since 26 January this year,” said Ms Francine Nelufule. Her daughter, Muano Nelufule (28), disappeared without a trace, causing sleepless nights for the family. They were eventually found on Friday, 11 February. Francine Nelufule said that the family members as well as the police were told that Muano and her two sons had been seen at Ha-Makhuvha near the Vhufuli Hospital. “We found her there safe with her sons,” she added. According to Francine, Muano went to visit her boyfriend, who stayed at Ha-Makhuvha, soon after being discharged from the hospital. She did not inform the family of her whereabouts and her phone was switched off for several days. “I had sleepless nights since my daughter and her two sons were not with us as a family, but we thank God that she had been re-united with the family,” Francine said. She said that her daughter was reprimanded not to leave without telling the family members where she was going. Limpopo police spokesperson Sgt Maphure Manamela said the woman had reportedly taken her toddlers to Donald Fraser Hospital on Wednesday, 26 January 2022 after they had fallen sick, where they were admitted upon arrival. “On Wednesday, 2 February, at about 14:00, the woman reportedly called her mother, who stayed with her in the same village and informed her that she and children were discharged,” said Sgt Manamela. Instead of waiting at the bus stop, Muano and her two sons disappeared, causing great stress to the family members. The police were asked to assist, and a case of a missing person was opened.  The missing woman, Ms Munano Nelufule, and her two sons of Malavuwe-Tshivhazwaulu village were re-united with their family.  Email: