News - Date: 12 February 2022 Written by: Bernard Chiguvare / Viewed: 140 Malugana Malindi, an inmate at the Kutama Sinthumule Correctional Centre, proved that it is never too late to turn one’s life around – even while you are doing a jail sentence. Malindi completed his senior certificate examination with a bachelor’s pass during the 2021 matric year and obtained 76% in the Tshivenda language. The results of the class of 2021 inmates were released by the Minister of Justice and Correctional Services, Mr Ronald Lamola, on 24 January at the Barberton Correctional Centre in Mpumalanga. This opportunity for inmates to complete their schooling forms part of the department’s rehabilitation process, aimed at the human development of inmates, where skills are transferred to the inmates through formal and vocational training to equip them for life upon their release. Malindi was sentenced on 6 October 2016 and is serving a 17-year jail term for rape and aggravated robbery. He was enrolled to do his matric and received his lessons from Thusano Repeat Part-time School at the Kutama Sinthumule Correctional Centre. According to Emma Maluleke, the Department of Correctional Service in Thohoyandou’s spokesperson, the correctional school at Kutama Sinthumule Correctional Centre was the only prison in the province who registered Grade 12 learners for 2021, with an enrolment of 59 students. Thirteen of these students matriculated with bachelor’s passes, nine with diploma-entry clearance, and nine with certificates, while 14 passed with supplementary exams, and 14 did not pass. In 2020, the school had a 38.5% pass rate and in 2021 it improved by 14%, earning them a pass rate of 51.7%, as well as an award for the third-highest improvement. Malindi said he was very thankful that the department had given him the chance to do his matric. He is happy and proud of his results and is geared and ready to further his studies. He aims for a bachelor’s degree in business studies. Malindi has encouraged other inmates to grab hold of this opportunity to turn their lives around as he is doing.  Malugana Malindi (left), an inmate at the Kutama Sinthumule Correctional Centre, and Acting National Commissioner Makgothi Thobakgale (right) after Malindi received his matric results for 2021 at the Barberton Correctional Centre in Mpumalanga. Photo supplied.  Bernard Chiguvare is a Zimbabwean-born journalist. He writes mainly for the online publication, Groundup.  Email: bernchiguvare@gmail.com