News - Date: 07 July 2022 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 614 A family at Shayandima was left homeless when a devastating fire consumed their 16-room house and everything inside that they owned. The fire broke out on Saturday, 25 June, just after 05:00. The house, situated next to the Shayandima post office, belongs to the Netshikulwe family. Family member Phathutshedzo Luvhengo (32), who was sleeping in a room next to where the fire started, said he woke up when he could not breathe. “When I opened my eyes, the room was filled with smoke, and suddenly fierce flames were licking at my door. I had to break the door and shout for help, but the fire spread so quickly. The shortage of water at the house added to our woes and we stood by and watched helplessly as the house burnt down. I also sustained burn wounds to my head, buttocks and hands and had to see a doctor. We are devastated as a family. No one knows how and where the fire started,” he said. Ms Elelwani Netshikulwe, who was sleeping in another room, said she heard a cry for help and rushed to her nephew’s room, only to find it on fire.  “The fire spread so fast that we were left helpless as there was no water in the house. We called the fire department, but when they arrived, it was too late; the house was completely gutted by then. We lost almost everything. The clothing I am wearing now is from good neighbours. We have nothing left,” she said. The damage is estimated at hundreds of thousands of rands. The local civic chairperson, Mr Fulufhelo Khuthe, said he was passing by on his way to work that morning when he noticed flames. “It was at around 06:00, and on closer look, I realised the whole house was on fire. People were trying to get in, but I had to stop them as I feared we could have casualties. Fortunately, everyone was already out of the house when the roof caved in. Until investigations reveal the cause of the fire, it will remain a mystery. The family is destitute and asking for any form of donation to help them rebuild their house, and we are pleading with all Good Samaritans out there to please open their hearts and help them,” he said. Those willing to assist the family can contact Ms Elelwani Netshikulwe at 072 900 5909.  Civic leader Mr Fulufhelo Khuthe inspects the damage after the Netshikulwe family from Shayandima's house burnt down. Photo: Elmon Tshikhudo.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and was a permanent part of the news team until 2019.  Email: