News - Date: 07 July 2022 Written by: Andries van Zyl / Viewed: 291 Construction of the new +- 90-bed addition to the Zoutpansberg Private Hospital (ZPH) in Louis Trichardt is progressing well, with some major construction processes to be completed within the next couple of weeks. “The contractor is well underway with the excavation of column bases, as well as the installation of steel reinforcing and concrete. The tower crane will arrive within the next month, which will be an unusual sight in the town of Louis Trichardt. You can expect the hospital to really take shape in the next three to six months,” said project manager Mr Walter Dhooge of Terray. From 7 July to 7 August the public, service providers to the hospital and health professionals have also been warned to expect temporary disruptions at the hospital’s main entrance in Joubert Street. This is because of construction work that entails connecting the new facility’s storm-water drainage and sewage system to the municipal system. “Please follow signage for a safe passage for pedestrians,” urged the hospital. Parking will be very limited and will be available in Celliers Street and on the primary school’s sidewalk. “Please respect our ambulance parking and our neighbours,” asked the hospital’s management. Monday, 6 June, marked another milestone for the ZPH when the site for the expansion of the hospital was officially handed over to the contractor, JC van der Linde & Venter Projects from Pretoria. The sod-turning ceremony for the start of the bulk earthworks took place on 7 March this year. The project is scheduled to take 15 months. Construction of the top structure has commenced, featuring a four-storey building of approximately 3 900 m². The new hospital will have three theatres, an ICU, surgical and medical wards, as well as maternity, NNICU and paediatric wards. “Construction is expected to be completed in August 2023, whereafter the building will be fitted with medical equipment and opened in the fourth quarter of 2023,” Dhooge said in an earlier interview.  Construction is progressing well with the expansion of the Zoutpansberg Private Hospital in Louis Trichardt. The contractor is well underway with the excavation of column bases, as well as the installation of steel reinforcing and concrete as can be seen from this drone footage, captured and supplied courtesy of Andrew Pienaar.  Andries joined the Zoutpansberger and Limpopo Mirror in April 1993 as a darkroom assistant. Within a couple of months he moved over to the production side of the newspaper and eventually doubled as a reporter. In 1995 he left the newspaper group and travelled overseas for a couple of months. In 1996, Andries rejoined the Zoutpansberger as a reporter. In August 2002, he was appointed as News Editor of the Zoutpansberger, a position he holds until today.  Email: andries@zoutnet.co.za