News - Date: 10 July 2022 Written by:  / Viewed: 378 Prominent traditional leader of Khubvi village Vhamusanda Vho-Mmbangiseni Thinawanga Leonard Randima believes that, despite the influence of the ever-changing modern world, traditional leaders still have the responsibility of preserving traditional and cultural practices. Randima addressed other traditional leaders, members of the Randima royal house and community members during the annual Thevhula ceremony, held at Musanda Khubvi on Saturday (2nd). The thevhula is an ancient traditional ceremony performed by clan elders and Vho-Makhadzi to appease the ancestors. For the past two years, the ceremony was limited to very few people because of Covid-19. “Now that the restrictions have been eased, we decided to invite more people to be part of this important occasion. For ages, our grandparents have been performing the thevhula and it is our responsibility to make sure that this practice does not die,” said Randima. According to Randima, the thevhula is very important as it opens ways for the current living generation. “We believe that, although our ancestors had gone from this world, they still guide us spiritually, so that we can have precious lives on earth. It is important for us to communicate with them through ceremonies like the thevhula. When we conduct the thevhula, we easily connect with our ancestors who, in turn, give us wisdom to choose between right and wrong. If we all go back to our cultural and traditional practices, the world will be a much better place.” Randima said it would be good if other traditional leaders followed suit in performing traditional ceremonies. “Taking into consideration that South Africa is a democratic country with the freedom to choose, it would be good if we came together as traditional leaders to preserve what is ours. However, we respect those who do not believe in performing the thevhula, as it is their right and their choice, but for us who believe in it, the practice is working wonders.” He thanked everyone who attended the ceremony. “Don’t feel that we are excluding you from taking part in proceedings because there are some items that only need to be performed by close family members and vho-makhadzi. Although we did not allow all of you to go with us to zwiendeulu (the sacred burial site), we regard you as part of us because you honoured this important occasion,” he said. Vho-Makhadzi Nnditsheni Sikhwari Randima, who was instrumental in performing the thevhula, was happy that the ceremony turned out to be such a huge success. “We are very sure that our ancestors too are happy wherever they are. All went well and peace will prevail in our family and the village at large.” Traditional dances, such as the tshikona, malende and tshigombela, were the order of the day while people enjoyed the meat and homemade traditional beer.  Vhamusanda Vho-Mmbangiseni Thinawanga Leonard Randima (left) and Vho-Makhadzi Nnditsheni Sikhwari Randima captured during the annual thevhula ceremony at Musanda Khubvi.  Email: