News - Date: 29 May 2022 Written by: Bernard Chiguvare / Viewed: 947 Unarine Mulaudzi from Makwarela Township’s story about how she beat all the odds by graduating with a Bachelor of Commerce degree truly is an inspiration to many – especially those from poor backgrounds. Her mother and role model, Tshinakaho Gloria Mulaudzi, spent many sleepless nights preparing vetkoek and fruit to sell in front of the local Home Affairs offices (Makwarela Home Affairs), to ensure that her daughter receives a good education. After Unarine passed her matric, she enrolled at the University of Free State. Her departure from home was a very emotional one. “As the City to City bus left Thohoyandou early that morning in 2019, my mother’s face went pale, while I also could not imagine leaving her behind. It was as if we were never going to see each other again.” They said their farewells and Unarine made the long journey to the Free State. At the university, she remained focused and spent most of her time studying, until she finally graduated in April this year (2022). “To my fellow black youths I want to say, everything is possible as long as you remain focused. The insurmountable challenges I went through were actually a source of my inspiration.” Unarine is currently pursuing her honours degree at the same university. Although her studies are very important to her, it has not restrained her from playing her part in the things she feels passionate about. In 2021, Unarine founded the Unarine Foundation, a non-profit organisation that goes out looking for people who are willing to donate school uniforms to underprivileged children. “I don’t want learners in my area to go through what I did, and that is the reason why I source school uniforms and donate them to learners,” she said.  The proud mother, Ms Tshinakaho Gloria Mulaudzi, and her daugther, Unarine, who recently graduated with a bachelor of commerce degree from the University of the Free State. Mother and daughter celebrated this  milestone together, which came with so many challenges for them both. Photo supplied.  Bernard Chiguvare is a Zimbabwean-born journalist. He writes mainly for the online publication, Groundup.  Email: bernchiguvare@gmail.com