News - Date: 13 May 2022 Written by:  / Viewed: 769 Members of the special task team appointed to investigate the daring R5,5 million diesel armed robbery at Alliance Fuel in Louis Trichardt the past weekend have managed to arrest two suspects in connection with the case. According to provincial police spokesperson Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo, the first to be arrested was a 43-year-old suspect after members pounced on a diesel depot in Vanderbijlpark in the Vaal area of the Gauteng during the early hours today, 13 May, at about 01:00. “Upon arrival, the suspects sped off in a white Toyota Hilux Legend 50. One suspect was arrested following a high-speed chase and shoot-out with the police. The other suspect fled on foot. Police recovered one 9mm pistol with ammunition and the getaway Toyota Hilux bakkie,” said Mojapelo. Members of the task team continued with their investigation at the depot and three trucks still filled up with diesel, suspected to have been stolen from a depot in Louis Trichardt, were confiscated. A fourth truck was intercepted at the Lebombo border to Mozambique later at about 08:30 and a 38-year-old suspect was arrested. “The excellent cooperation between the police and community members including security companies which resulted in this major breakthrough, is highly commendable,” said provincial police commissioner Lieutenant General Thembi Hadebe. Police have opened cases of attempted murder, reckless and negligent driving and possession of unlawful firearm and ammunition, armed robbery and possession of suspected stolen properties. The case of armed robbery relates to the shooting of an Alliance Fuel employee, Mr Andrew Goosen (43), during the robbery. He was shot three times, but managed to survive. “The suspects will soon appear before the different magistrate courts,” said Mojapelo. Police have since requested the owner of the depot in Vanderbijlpark, Mr William Macholo, to avail himself at the nearest police station as it is believed that he can assist with investigations. “The search for the remaining suspects continues. Anyone with information is requested to contact Lieutenant Colonel Richard Boshomane on 079 894 5501 or call the toll free number 0860010111 or contact the nearest police station,” said Mojapelo. One of the three diesel trucks, stilled filled up with diesel suspected to have been stolen at Alliance Fuel in Louis Trichardt, that was confiscated by police at a depot in Vanderbijlipark. Photo: Limpopo Police.  Email: