News - Date: 28 May 2022 Written by: Elmon Tshikhudo / Viewed: 531 A few years ago, Pienaar Sivhaga (56) of Itsani Tshivhuyuni outside Thohoyandou was a well-known shoemaker in the area. That was before the glittering city lights winked at him in 2016, and he decided to trade his shoemaking skills for a security job in Polokwane. As fate would have it, he lost his job and came back home. That was when he came face to face with the realities of life for the unemployed and not being able to support his family. After careful consideration, he decided to start his shoemaking business from scratch. If he could do it then, he could do it now, he thought. He found a spot outside the Shayandima Secondary School grounds’ gate, which had become a meeting place for people, and this was where business started booming for him again. “I wasted my time sleeping in the cold, ducking and diving bullets and knives for peanuts. After long retrospection, I came to my senses and now I am back to my roots, doing what I love - rendering shoe services, and my customers are happy.” From the money he makes here, he can look after himself and his family. Pienaar learned two valuable lessons through his experience. Firstly, that people sometimes get a second chance to start again, and secondly, to take whatever opportunity comes your way. “Work is scarce, but we can create our own jobs if we try. Never give up,” he said. One of Pienaar’s regular customers over the years, Mr Samson Maduwa, said he would not take his shoes to anybody else. “Pienaar is the best shoemaker here, and he is providing an essential service to the community of Shayandima. What makes him different is that his service is done with the utmost efficiency, professionalism and true craftsmanship, along with sincerity and solid advice. He is just a phone call away and collects and delivers,” he said. Those who wish to make use of Pienaar's services can contact him on 063 617 5410.  Well-known shoemaker from Itsani Tshivhuyuni Pienaar Sivhaga, doing what he loves most. Photo: Elmon Tshikhudo.  Elmon Tshikhudo started off as a photographer. He developed an interest in writing and started submitting articles to local as well as national publications. He became part of the Limpopo Mirror family in 2005 and was a permanent part of the news team until 2019.  Email: