News - Date: 22 May 2022 Written by: Thembi Siaga / Viewed: 348 Upcoming make-up artist Nsovo Valoyi from Bungeni has grown her passion for make-up into a viable business. She realised that, to find success in life, you should use what you have at your disposal and run with it. With this perspective, she has figured out how to make ends meet as a beautician. Nsovo (25) is slowly but surely making a name for herself in fashion circles. “I am recognised as one of the skilled make-up artists around my area now. It is easy for me to get clients and make a living from my work and the long hours I put into improving myself,” she said. She enrolled for a make-up course at Kohl Makeup Academy in Pretoria in 2019, after completing high school. Her love of make-up was sparked a few years earlier after attending a wedding ceremony. “I couldn’t believe how beautiful the bride and bridesmaids looked. They looked like dolls! From there on I became interested in learning how to acquire the skills to make people look like that,” she said. Nsovo is currently a final-year LLB student at Unisa. She ventured into a make-up business, named Glorious Glamour, with the little start-up money she had and began her career by watching YouTube tutorials to enhance her skills. “I started watching YouTube videos, then bought the make-up and tried to copy from the tutorials but was unsuccessful at first. I was very bad, and it made me give up for six months. I then came back and started practising hard this time, and it worked,” she said. She unpacked some of the challenges she came across, as things did not come easy for her. “I would be learning new skills and techniques at 02:00 to 03:00 in the morning, then be up again at 05:30 to get ready to go to work. That was very tough. Plus, some customers did not respect my time at first,” she said. Inspired by well-known, self-taught beautician Mantharetso Masiea from Mapoteng in the Berea district of Lesotho, Nsovo’s creativity and determination earned her positive responses from her clients. “Mantharetso inspired my work. When I started my journey, she was the person I discovered on Facebook. Her work immediately caught my eye. My clients love my work. I see it because they refer other people to me and always come back for more,” she said.  Nsovo Valoyi from Bungeni transformed her love of make-up into a business. Photo supplied.  Thembi Siaga worked as an intern during 2021. He assisted with video photography and editing. He also produced numerous small documentaries, focusing on the Vhembe region and its people.  Email: